---
title: "Music: _Instinct(不假思索)_"
excerpt: " "
collection: portfolio
---
<iframe width="100%" height="300" scrolling="no" frameborder="no" allow="autoplay" src="https://w.soundcloud.com/player/?url=https%3A//api.soundcloud.com/tracks/2099844462&color=%23ff5500&auto_play=false&hide_related=false&show_comments=true&show_user=true&show_reposts=false&show_teaser=true&visual=true"></iframe><div style="font-size: 10px; color: #cccccc;line-break: anywhere;word-break: normal;overflow: hidden;white-space: nowrap;text-overflow: ellipsis; font-family: Interstate,Lucida Grande,Lucida Sans Unicode,Lucida Sans,Garuda,Verdana,Tahoma,sans-serif;font-weight: 100;"><a href="https://soundcloud.com/michael-tian-107880864" title="Michael Tian" target="_blank" style="color: #cccccc; text-decoration: none;">Michael Tian</a> · <a href="https://soundcloud.com/michael-tian-107880864/instinct" title="不假思索 (Instinct)" target="_blank" style="color: #cccccc; text-decoration: none;">不假思索 (Instinct)</a></div>
This song was written in the 
This song was written for the March 2024 student event at Tsinghua University’s Department of Automation. I am in charge of the lyrics composition, melody composition, arrangement, and part of the singing (the first vocal from the beginning). This song is mainly about looking back at the past times in the university on the eve of graduation, expressing the cherishing of the past and the longing for the future dream.

I think the biggest trial is the Cello solo functioning as the first and second sentence in the first chrous, and the idea is adopted by Bruce Liang, a very famous Chinese singer. It certainly brought a different vibe into the song. Also, I tried to mainly use strings for the emotional drive. It takes a lot of time to think of different tricks to make it melodious while giving the audience some surprise and function well in different verses and chorouses. The use of legato and staccato, as well as some major second intervals (for tension), is a good reflection that I did a good job in writing the strings accompaniment part. It's also my first time to write a duet, the current key is a little bit stretched for the woman singer. I tried a lot of key-changing techniques, and some of them are really smooth, but I still need to learn and practice more.
